The Step and Flex Re-energizer is a dynamic warm-up
that increases blood flow and range of motion
through the core muscles
and down to the larger muscles of the leg.
It’s pretty simple.
Start with your feet a little more than shoulder width apart.
Now, step forward with one leg
and open up your stance by turning your back foot out like this:
This foot position relieves stress in the knees,
and promotes better balance,
by allowing you to keep your feet flat on the floor.
In addition, this foot position allows
for better range of motion of the hips.
To start, avoid bending forward at the waist,
but rather, align your spinal in-curves
and flex your knees, but no more than 90-degrees.
Exhale,
and stand up to return to the starting position.
Now that we’ve covered the technical steps
to perform the Step and Flex Re-energizer
let’s do a series of repetitions on both sides of the body.
Remember to go slow and steady, avoid strain and pain,
and remember to breathe.
Step and flex to a count of 5,
4,
3,
2, and one more
Relax as you stand up straight
and switch legs to re-energize the other side of your lower body.
Remember to open up your stance
by turning your back foot out.
Step and flex to a count of,
5,
4,
3,
2, and one more.
Common questions about this re-energizer include
“How many repetitions?” and “How often should I do this?”
The answer is “We would recommend doing three sets of five
on both sides of the body prior to physical activity.”
However, feel free to try this re-energizer several times
throughout the day to increase muscular endurance
and wake up the cardiovascular system.